feat(ARCH-349): add assets api (#3692)
Talend/ui: packages/assets-api/README.md

# @talend/assets-api

> 

Reviewer: This maybe requires more context than the requirements. 

What real-life issues is it trying to solve? Can you give example? Is it replacing something? As a newbie I don't really understand the point.

Reviewer 2: Agree with that, and it's missing a description on top to tell what it does. The documentation starts with requirements but we don't know requirements for what.

Author: let me know if this is better now

Package which expose a simple API which cover the following requirements:

> - dev do not have to write the version: inject it at build time thanks to [babel plugin](https://npmjs.com/package/@talend/babel-plugin-assets-api)

Author: the version of the asset. Dev do not want to write getAsset(assetName, **assetVersion**, ...)

- the assets version is implicitly specified by the webapp (talend-scripts add global data read by the api at runtime)
- the inject.js script will be able to control this version (it should update meta value)
- the sessionStorage is used to let anyone try a new version
- the API is friend / compatible with suspense / lazy react api
- for UMD, the path is computed form module-to-cdn and injected at build time thanks to the babel plugin
- for relative path in current package, the name of the package is optional

## Learn by examples

First you need to ensure you have setup the [babel plugin](https://npmjs.com/package/@talend/babel-plugin-assets-api) or you use @talend/scripts-core to build your lib / project.

```javascript
import assetsAPI from '@talend/assets-api';

// First the most low level API is to get URL of anything like a css here
const href = assetsApi.getURL('/dist/styles/ag-grid.css', 'ag-grid-community');
// babel will add all missing arguments and at runtime you will have
href === 'https://unpkg.com/ag-grid-community@25.0.0/dist/styles/ag-grid.css';

> // Then we have higher level API to get a JSON file for locales, timezones, etc...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Higher level APIs enable users to get a JSON file for locales, timezones, etc...
```

async function getTopology(file) {
	const locales = await assetsAPI.getJSON(
		`/dist/assets/maps/${file}.topo.json`,
	);
}

> // Then we have lazy load of a component from UMD
> // this one is a bit more complex. You have to know React.lazy want a default esModule from a Promise. This is what getUMD + toDefaultModule give you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// We can also lazy load a component from a UMD.
// This one is a bit more complex. You have to know that React.lazy wants a default esModule from a Promise. This is what getUMD + toDefaultModule give you.
```

const AgGridReact = React.lazy(() =>
	assetsApi
		.getUMD('ag-grid-community')
		.then(() =>
			assetsApi.getUMD('ag-grid-react').then(mod => assetsApi.toDefaultModule(mod.AgGridReact)),
		),
);

> // Last example is on how to load styles from a lazy loaded component
> // you can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Finally, this is how we load styles from a lazy loaded component.
```

export default function DataGrid(props) {
	//...
	useEffect(() => {
		const href = assetsApi.getURL('/dist/styles/ag-grid.css', 'ag-grid-community');
		assetsApi.addStyle({ href });
	}, []);
	//...
	return <React.Suspense fallback={}>AgGridReact</React.Suspense>
}
```

## How to configure the CDN to use ?

> assets API use a global function to compute the url: `window.Talend.getCDNUrl`. By default the package will add it for you. This version will use a global CDN_URL with the following shape:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The assets API uses a global function to compute the URL: `window.Talend.getCDNUrl()`. By default the package will add it for you. This version will use a global `CDN_URL` with the following shape:
```

```javascript
`${CDN_URL}/${info.name}/${info.version}${info.path}`;
```

> but fallback to unpkg.com public cdn if no CDN_URL is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but fallbacks to unpkg.com public CDN if no CDN_URL is provided.
```

# @talend/assets-api

> Assets are files from a npm package which can be needeed at some point by a web application. It can be a stylesheet, a SVG icon, a js script, a json file, etc...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assets are files from a npm package which can be needed at some point by a web application. It can be a stylesheet, a SVG icon, a js script, a json file, etc...
```

> At Talend our web applications may rely on a CDN to load libraries like lodash, d3 but also @talend/design-system using UMD distribution format. An application rely on a CDN depending of the execution context; We are following 12 factors principals. So the same code base must work in both case so an asset url may change from '/cdn/my-package/1.2.3/dist/my-assets.svg`to`https://mycdn.talend.com/my-package/1.2.3/dist/my-assets.svg`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At Talend our web applications may rely on a CDN to load libraries like lodash, d3 but also @talend/design-system using UMD distribution format. An application rely on a CDN depending of the execution context; We are following 12 factors principals. So the same code base must work in both case so an asset url may change from `/cdn/my-package/1.2.3/dist/my-assets.svg` to `https://mycdn.talend.com/my-package/1.2.3/dist/my-assets.svg`.
```
